---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# System Overview

## Project Abstract
This project aims to develop a novel application capable of collecting and organizing message data contained in company communication platforms. The application will be able to structure any message data across different channels and users into a consistent data model once it is granted proper permissions to access a channel or user direct messaging. This data model will consist of attributes relevant to common business / work discussions, such as main ideas, terminology, and roles of participating users. The resulting organized data can then be used in multiple workplace tasks such as automating regularly performed actions or summarizing projects for newly onboarded team members. With a specific structured data model, other communication tools will be able to more easily perform specific duties based on carefully derived context of user discussions -- for instance, a development team's logs of a project's previous sprints can generate a concise calendar of all prior meetings and relevant milestones, as well as project possible schedules for future sprints.

## High Level Requirements
The application will primarily function as a tool compatible with popular work communication platforms that can extract context from direct messages (DMs) between users and channels/conversations between multiple users. The tool operates within the target communication platform's interface, allowing users to select specific channels/DMs to perform data collection, configure timestamp ranges that the contextualizing model will analyze communication data, or control whether the user consents to their messages being collected through the application directly. When a user begins a DM or enters a conversation where the bot is configured, the user is prompted to give permission for all message data to be collected (either via an opt-in or hybrid approval). If active, the tool marks whenever a new message within the DM or conversation has been stored in memory for contextualization; if a user wishes to not include a message in data collection, this marker can be directly toggled to inform the system to include or omit certain message data. When the user wishes to retrieve their structured message data, they can prompt the tool within the target platform, which will result in the application displaying a basic data model of all included messages in a digestable format, which can be directly downloaded or accessed for the use of context-based automation at a larger scale, such as for summarizing entire channel's worth of information.

## Conceptual Design
For the scope of our project, our application's design will utilize the chosen work communication platform's API to access all user, message, and channel data, but development of a codebase compatible with multiple communication platforms is anticipated. For the best compatibility with the existing Web API that communication platforms generally provide, the application will integrate with the target platform using routes composed in JavaScript and Node.js, which are capable of accessing platform data and interacting directly with the with platform's UI. The tool's backend also will have the ability to extract context about conversations between multiple users, identifying details about topics of discussion, frequently referenced phrases or documentation, and relevant actions made by users among other key attributes about a pair of users/team's interactions. Using these extracted points, the system will structure the selected message data into meaningful units, accomplished through a custom built LLM or similar NLP model designed for organizing data based on learned language patterns.

## Background
Communication platforms like Slack are being increasingly normalized in various workplace environments to discuss projects, schedule meetings, and many other interactions relevant to the specific work the business does. Often, this increased use in messaging applications results in signficant information being buried deep in Slack channel discussions or previous direct messages; the further back a conversation may be, the more context may be necessary for a user to get a proper understanding of the subjects being discussed, making it difficult to fully process information being covered in a conversation's history. Several custom bots and pre-built automation features exist for Slack that can summarize individual messages or perform actions within Slack when an expected message type is sent, but few technologies currently exist that can organize a collection of message data from a conversation into a standardized data model that fully addresses the possible context that can exist and change every time a user sends a new message. By developing a Slack bot with these features in mind, the use cases for structured message data are greatly expanded. Common preexisting automation tools for communication platforms often perform particular tasks like meeting scheduling or email sending based off a very specific trigger case (e.g., recognizing specific text in a message). With a detailed data model that intentionally contains relevant information about the users invovled and what subjects they discuss, an automation can perform the same scheduling tasks more consistently having more data to back when a project calls for a team meeting or email update, as well as include more dynamic pieces of information in said schedules that reference particular project goals that were most recently discussed.
